The Lord of the Rings is an epic[1] high fantasy novel[a] written by the English author and scholar J. R. R. Tolkien. Set in Middle-earth, the story began as a sequel to Tolkien's 1937 children's book The Hobbit but eventually developed into a much larger work. Written in stages between 1937 and 1949, The Lord of the Rings is one of the best-selling books ever written, with over 150 million copies sold.[2]

The title refers to the story's main antagonist,
[b] the Dark Lord Sauron, who in an earlier age
 created the One Ring, allowing him to rule
  the other Rings of Power given to men, dwarves, and elves,
  in his campaign to conquer all of Middle-earth.
  From homely beginnings in the Shire, a hobbit land reminiscent of the English countryside,
  the story ranges across Middle-earth, following the quest to destroy the One Ring, seen mainly through the eyes of the hobbits Frodo, Sam, Merry, and Pippin. Aiding the hobbits are the wizard Gandalf, the men Aragorn and Boromir, the elf Legolas, and the dwarf Gimli, who unite as the Company of the Ring to rally the Free Peoples of Middle-earth against Sauron's armies and give Frodo a chance to destroy the One Ring in the fires of Mount Doom.

Tolkien drew inspiration from various influences
 for the story, including philology, mythology,
  Christianity, earlier fantasy works, and his
  own experiences in the First World War.
  Although the work is often called a trilogy,
   Tolkien intended it to be a single volume in a two-volume set,
   along with The Silmarillion.[3][T 3]
   For economic reasons, it was first published over the course of a year,
    from 29 July 1954 to 20 October 1955, in three volumes rather than one,[3][4]
     under the titles The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers, and The Return of the King; The Silmarillion appeared only after Tolkien's death. The work is divided internally into six books, two per volume, with several appendices of chronologies, genealogies, and linguistic information.[c] These three volumes were later published as a boxed set in 1957, and finally as a single volume in 1968, following Tolkien's original intent.